Our solar system is made up the sun, eight planets, more than 150 moons, as well as comets, asteroids, dwarf planets
and other space rocks.
Planets, asteroids and comets orbit the sun. They travel around our sun in an ellipse. It takes Mercury, the nearest
planet, only 88 days but Neptune 164 years to travel around the sun once.
Moons orbit planets. Currently, Jupiter has the most moons – over 60. Mercury and Venus don't have any moons.
The inner planets Mercury, Venus, the Earth and Mars are called terrestrial planets. This means they have a hard surface
to stand on. Jupiter, Saturn, Neptune and Uranus are the outer planets. They are also called the gas giants because you
can't stand on them - their surface is made of gas.There are many theories on how the solar system developed. About 4.5
billion years ago a big cloud of gas and dust probably collapsed. The sun formed in the middle, the densest region.
Further away from the sun, gases changed to planets made of rock. It is the brightest object in our night sky. The Sun,
of course, is the brightest object in our daytime sky. It lights up the moon, planets, comets, and asteroids.

The sun

The sun is by far the largest object in our solar system, containing 99.8 percent of the solar system's mass. It sheds
most of the heat and light that makes life possible on Earth and possibly elsewhere. Planets orbit the sun in
oval-shaped paths called ellipses, with the sun slightly off-center of each ellipse. NASA has a fleet of spacecraft
observing the sun to learn more about its composition, and to make better predictions about solar activity and its
effect on Earth.
The four inner four planets — Mercury, Venus, Earth and Mars — are made up mostly of iron and rock. They are known as
terrestrial or earthlike planets because of their similar size and composition. Earth has one natural satellite — the
moon — and Mars has two moons — Deimos and Phobos. Between Mars and Jupiter lies the Asteroid Belt. Asteroids are minor
planets, and scientists estimate there are more than 750,000 of them with diameters larger than three-fifths of a mile
(1 km) and millions of smaller asteroids. The dwarf planet Ceres, about 590 miles (950 km) in diameter, resides here. A
number of asteroids have orbits that take them closer into the solar system that sometimes lead them to collide with
Earth or the other inner planets.